Dr. Seafford, it's so nice to have you
today and uh thanks for coming on today.
>> Oh, thank you very much, James. It's a
real pleasure to be here as well.
>> Well, you know, I think that you're on
the right track and uh you know, you
talk a lot about what cancer is and what
it's not. And from your experience, how
many years have you been working on this
this research project?
Well, um probably more than 40 years.
>> Wow.
>> But it it doesn't uh come together
uh until the last 20 years.
>> Yeah. because you there's a lot of
groundwork you have to do something that
might not have any relevance to
someone's condition clinic
>> but it forms the uh understanding of the
biochemical and genetic uh background
information that you would need to have
uh to put all the parts of the puzzle
together.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, um I was certainly not it didn't
start my career off with saying, you
know, we have a an effective non-toxic
therapeutic strategy for managing
cancer.
>> That certainly did not uh start me off.
I I didn't I was like everybody else.
>> I I thought it was an enormously
complicated problem.
>> Yeah.
>> Caused by various gene mutations.
>> Just like everybody else. And the books
that I read, I, you know, you just don't
think about it. You just say, "Well,
everybody says this. It's got to be the
way it is." And, uh, but when you start
uh thinking about it and digging into
it, you find out that this uh it's not
really what what people thought it was.
>> Yeah. Because I mean, everybody thinks,
well, my mother had cancer, my father
had cancer, my grandmother had cancer,
you know, maybe breast cancer or
something, so I guess I'm going to have
it. And people go out, run out and, you
know, and do all kinds of crazy things
because they think they're going to have
it if they, you know, so they they just
accept that.
>> And I read something, I don't know when
it was, but 90% is what I read. I don't
know if this is right or not. 90% is
selfinduced.
you know, basically from our lifestyle,
from our our eating habits, from our
exposure to toxic chemicals to our lack
of taking care of oursel on on many
levels and and and the thing is is like
10% is genetics. Now, I don't know, you
know, a lot of times people do have the
mutated genes and different things that
could affect, you know, our health and
everything. And you know, as as we get
older, we find out all kinds of things
if we're going to the right place to get
tested and get, you know, like
functional medicine sometimes. And
there's not a lot of these these doctors
out there that believe in that. But but
you know, with your work, you started
out uh working with epilepsy, isn't that
right?
>> Yeah. Well, that's that's correct. I
mean we were we were in the u in the
business of mapping genes
uh uh for controlling epileptic seizures
and these um mouse models of the various
kinds of of seizures that that we know
exist in humans. Mhm. And
>> the understanding was almost like in the
cancer field that if we could identify
the mutations in the genes that would
contribute to electrical excitability in
the brain, we could then develop
specific targeting drugs uh to reduce uh
seizures, epileptic seizures.
>> Yeah. Um and that was the strata.
Everybody was very excited about that. A
lot of lot of money coming from uh the
National Institutes of Health, map
epilepsy genes, develop drugs, stop the
seizures.
>> Um but what what I was working with
John, the late John Freeman, uh who was
kind of a mentor at times. I'd meet him
at the meetings and he was telling me
that these ketogenic diets uh could stop
or at least reduce uh seizures
regardless of what the origin happened
to be. Some guy might have had seizures
from a bang on the head, another guy
from a tumor, another guy from some rare
metabolic problem. Uh regardless of what
it was or some inherited risk factor, it
seemed like they all responded in some
way to this to this kind of a diet. So
we were developing better. So we
identified that it was the lowering of
the glucose and the elevation of the
ketones that was largely responsible for
the management of the seizures. So um
regardless of what was the original
origin of what led to the elicitation of
electrical excitability, it seemed that
if you lowered the this one fuel and
raise the other for whatever reason, and
it's still not clear on how that
combination uh works to stop epileptic
seizures. But we were learning that even
the number of drugs, these toxic drugs
that they were giving to children to
manage the seizures, the these drugs all
worked better when the child was in this
new metabolic state. Um, that was first
actually discovered in 1921 by Wilder at
the Mayo Clinic.
>> But he he recognized that water only
fasting was a very effective way to stop
seizures, but you could only do that for
so long. uh then he developed these
highfat diets that would put a patient
in a kind of a state of a of a of a
fasting starvation state by eating
something that would create the same
metabolic background. So all of these
things I spent many many years uh
researching but at the same time we were
also investigating the biochemistry of
cancer uh brain cancer specifically.
>> Yeah. And um we were the two par the two
studies were basically parallel. They
were not overlapping until we started to
see that uh some of our our mouse models
uh with CA with brain cancer that the
tumors started to shrink remarkably when
the mice were restricted of food and and
uh the blood sugar went down and the
ketones went up. And I said well this is
the same thing we're seeing in the
epilepsy. You know what's going on here?
which then brought us to the I the
studies of Ad Warberg uh who clearly
said that all tumors are driven by a
fermentation of of sugar which is lactic
acid fermentation. So uh one thing led
to another uh and we were able to
confirm Warberg's original observations
and then clear up a lot of the
misunderstanding that was associated
with his findings which then brings the
whole cancer field back on the right
track uh rather than an uh you know
whack-a-ole gene trying to find all
these different kinds of genes that we
have now shown all to be down downstream
effects of of the disregulated energy
metabolism.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ keto for cancer,
the new community by our research
analyst Johnny Rocker Meyer. Within this
new community platform, you can connect
with other patients and learn from their
experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement.
Starting with the general scientific
concepts by Dr. Thomas Ciphford, we will
show you how to start the ketogenic
diet, including which foods to choose
and which to avoid. Additionally, we
prepared a list of doctors specialized
in metabolic therapy as well as details
about glutamine inhibition and
hyperbaric oxygen protocols. So, take a
look around at school.com/ keto for
cancer.
So, what what what seems to be today is
that we're chasing effects. Um, and as
long as we continue to chase effects,
we'll never have a therapy that will be
optimal uh for the majority of people
that that have the disorder. So, it's a
it's a new theory. It's the theory of
the mitochondrial metabolic theory of
cancer
>> which will now replace the somatic
mutation theory of cancer. Uh, and this
is very important because when the
theory underlying the phenomenon is the
correct one, the advances will fall into
place very rapidly. So if the treatments
of cancer are based on the somatic
mutation theory which is now undermined
and discredited we're we will not we'll
continue to have these increases in
numbers like you mentioned at the
beginning and there'll be no really
long-term effective management of
cancer. So you have to bring the the
recognition back to the correct theory
and once the the once you realize that
it's a metabolic disorder based on
mitochondrial dysfunction then the
strategies for managing this become far
more uh uh effective with less toxicity.
Um uh one of the shortcomings of course
is that it will not it doesn't yet
generate the kind of revenue uh that we
see from the semantic mutation theory
where drugs are hundreds of thousands of
dollars and all of these kinds of things
um which is driving a huge academic
pharmaceutical hospital industry. Um
metabolic therapy can achieve uh better
results with less toxicity but people
can't figure out how to make a buck on
it. Um, so once they realize that, then
it's everything will fall into place.
>> Yeah. I tell you, it's it's it's
it's something, you know, it's like f I
guess you follow the money trail and and
people like, you know, when they're when
they're on a diet, a special low glucose
diet and maybe higher fat and the body
goes into ketosis and starts to burn and
the idea is as you're starving to
cancer. I I know that's what what the
idea is, but can you get people to roll
up their sleeves and stick with it that
have cancer, you know, and they I know
they want some kind of magic bullet
people, a lot of people, and give me a
drug, give me this, give me that, but
you know, people have to understand that
that, you know, their diet and their
lifestyle have created a lot of this
problem. And it's it's they think that
if they can't, you know, eat anything
they want, do anything they want, then
and some of them and it's not fun
anymore. Life's not fun, you know, that
kind of thing. But it's their life, you
know, and if you if diagnosed with this
cancer,
>> it's serious. And especially if it's a
later stage, it's very serious. and and
uh you know this this uh this whole
thing of uh letting someone else do
everything for you and you know go to
some guy in a white jacket and he says,
"Okay, you just come in every 3 months
or 6 months and we'll give you some this
or that and chemotherapy and all this
stuff and and uh don't worry about what
you eat." Usually they have a bowl of
candy on the counter when you go into
the office. So it's just it's it's very
uh uh disheartening.
>> Yeah. Well, it's it speaks to the lack
of knowledge uh on the part of the very
practitioners that are supposed to
service you in a in a in a in a in a way
that's to manage the disease. And like
you said with the quick fix or let's
take this pill and let's do this
procedure and
>> and everybody is is agreeable uh for
that uh at the beginning. uh and of
course they put their trust into the
into the system uh which can be very
very impressive uh at these top cancer
centers like Dana Farber here in Boston
and MD Anderson Sloan Ketaring the Mafet
Fred Hutch you know all around the
country um these are very impressive
structures uh very impressive facilities
uh but we've got almost 1,700 people a
day dying from cancer and we have u
millions of cancer survivors who have
paid a huge price in their overall
health uh for having survived uh a lot
of the toxic treatments that were
>> given to them. So they're not completely
out of the woods. Yes, they didn't die
from cancer, but now they could be
compromised in so many other ways that
reduce the quality of their life and
their and their and their overall
survival on the planet. So, it's not a
scot-free uh cure for a lot of people.
Yes, it doesn't affect, of course, we
always have the guy that has a complete
uh rem resolution. Let's put it that way
and lives to be 95 years old. But yeah,
I would say that
>> smokes and drinks and does everything
and they live to be 95 and everybody
says, "Well, my grandfather lived to be
this and he
>> smoked a, you know, three packs of
camels every day or whatever, you know,
and it's kind of like, okay, well, but
nowadays we're bombarded with so much
more, I think,
>> especially with, you know, other than
that that's affecting our immune
system." But, you know, I'll tell you,
when I was diagnosed with cancer in uh
1985,
I ended up in the hospital and ended up
having a little surgery and lymphatic
stuff cuz it had spread to the lymphatic
system and and you know, you're laying
there and you're weak and you're they're
running you through this experimental
chemotherapy treatments and all this. I
didn't know anything else. And every
night nearly somebody would be rolled
down the hall and I would say, "What's
all the commotion?" And they would say,
"Well, so and so passed away last
night." And I'm like, "They passed away.
I just talked to them a week ago and
they seemed okay. Well, they got
pneumonia or well, they had kidney
failure." And I'm like, you know, I
started thinking, you know, because I
was, it was all new to me. And I'm like,
it's these drugs are toxic, you know,
and this is what's affecting these
people and weakening their system even
more. They're already, you know, at a
certain level or they wouldn't have
cancer. But, you know, it takes a while
to put two and two together because, you
know, when you first I mean, I me I
mean, I didn't know any of this stuff
and this was a long time ago. And, you
know, you're just sitting there like,
why did I get cancer? Am I a bad person?
That did I you know, what happened to
me? Did I just did I lay out in the sun
too much? You know, whatever it was, but
that none of that was true, but you
don't know why. And then later on, you
start to put the pieces together and you
know, just like just like you have
through your research and it's very
interesting, isn't it?
>> Yeah. Well, you know, it's I've spoken
to a number of folks from around the
different countries and different uh
places and about 50% of people that that
die uh from cancer are dying from the
treatments.
>> Yeah.
>> They call it um complications of cancer
or something along these lines. And it's
the tremendous toxicity of drugs
especially in older folks. You know,
when you get older, your body all the
immune system already becomes a little
weaker than it was. 25. So you start
getting pounded by these toxic drugs. Uh
you know lumistia I don't know they call
it red devil. I mean everything is
turning red and your body is being
brutal. You shouldn't that that now that
of course the drug kills cancer cells.
You go bald and a lot of these other
things. But but you can kill those same
cells by pulling the plug on the fuels
that they're needed to grow. Without
energy, nothing nothing can grow. And I
always tell tell people, you want to
know how important energy is to your
life? Uh, look what happens if someone
were to drink cyanide, how fast you die.
>> Yeah.
>> Jones, the Jonestown thing. All those
poor folks drinking the Kool-Aid with
the cyanide. They're all laying there
dead within minutes of drinking. That
tells you that when cyanide blocks
electron transport chain at cytochrome
C, shuts down respiration almost
immediately and you die. Okay, that
tells you how powerful energy is that
and you need it to stay alive. Now,
interestingly enough, the cancer cells
don't die in the presence of cyanide.
Warberg showed that and we've shown it
in our lab. So, clearly they are
resistant to the very drug that will
kill us quickly, but the tumor cell
doesn't die from that because it's using
an a very different form of energy.
>> It's using an a non oxidative non oxygen
dependent energy which is called
fermentation. Yes,
>> energy without oxygen. So then you asked
the simple question, well what what are
the fuels that drive this this energy?
And we interrogated these tumor cells
and we found that only the sugar glucose
and the amino acid glutamine are the two
predominant fuels driving the
disregulated growth of cancer cells. Uh
and they can't switch. uh they're very
limited in what they can use because the
organel responsible for the versatility,
the mitochondrian is defective.
>> So they're very they're locked into a
fermentation metabolism, energy without
oxygen, driven by two predominant fuels,
glucose and glutamine. And they can't
use other fuels like normal cells can.
Normal cells are very flexible. So we
transition the whole body over to
ketones uh based on the use of fatty
acids and ketone bodies which the normal
cells in our body evolve to use over
tens of thousands. In fact, all
organisms use these these primitive
forms of or or can switch. Cancer cells
cannot make the switch. So soon as you
target those two fuels after
transitioning the body to nutritional
ketosis, they start dropping out fast
and and and you're selectively starving
the tumor cells while enhancing the
health and vitality of the normal cells,
making your body and the rest of the
body more healthy while the tumor cells
are slowly degraded. Uh and it works and
I've seen it work over and over again.
But when you go to the oncology centers,
they never mention this. uh they have no
clue what what I've just said. They
never studied this. They've only heard
radiation and chemo. Cancer is a genetic
disease and this is what we do. Now, you
should also recognize
>> that we've spent uh billions and
billions of dollars on the cancer genome
project because the experts said that
once we figure out all the mutations in
cancer cells, we'll be able to develop
these targeted personalized therapies.
So uh the reason why we continue to use
toxic poisons and uh various kinds of
radiation because the promise of the
genome uh theory the gene theory and the
and the cancer genome atlas have not
come to fruition and they never will
because the theory is incorrect.
>> So we have essentially spent billions
and billions of dollars on things that
are not going to be responsible for the
benefit of the majority of people with
cancer. Once you realize that it's a
different theory under which you're
studying, that's when you start to see
the big drops in death and the overall
improvement in quality of life. How long
it will take for that information to get
out to the general population. And
what's more important to the major
medical schools, I don't know, because
they're suffering from confirmation
bias, silent assumptions about things.
It's a dogmatic view of what the world
should be when it's not. So, and that's
that's been responsible for in the past
for the for the shifts in paradigms
because the field thinks something is
one thing but it's not and until until
you become realize that but the problem
here in in contrast to the heliocentric
geocentric uh theory of capernicus and
Galileo with the shift from the the the
the earth to the sun is the center um
that wasn't responsible uh for almost
1,700 people day dying. Uh, a guy would
probably care less back in the 1500s
whether the sun or the earth was the
center of the solar system.
>> Yeah.
>> Today, when you have the wrong theory,
you're actually allowing all of these
people to die miserable, horrific deaths
in these medical schools because you're
not willing to accept the new theory of
what the nature of the disease is. So,
this is this is what I call the tragedy
today.
>> Yeah. It's really it's really bad. And
people just have to understand that that
if there is a cure or a or a prolonging
of of uh or overcoming of of cancer,
whatever you want to call it. Nobody
likes to talk about cures, you know,
they oh cure. There's no cure. But, you
know, it's like I know a lot of people
I've interviewed that have been around a
long time and they had pancreatic
cancer. They've had, you know, small
lung cancer, all kinds. And but they
learned what you're talking about. They
had to get on a strict diet, change
their lifestyle, get on a detoxification
program, you know, get on key
supplements, a lot of them, and change
their attitude, change their, you know,
the way they look at things. uh maybe
you want to call it uh you know their uh
emotional side of their body, their you
know develop a hey you know if I can't
do it a nobody can kind of a mentality
uh you know I'm going to I'm going to be
if anybody can beat this I can and
that's the kind of person that you know
does well and I've interviewed I don't
know how many different doctors
practitioners that work with cancer
patients that you But whether it's the
keto diet or something similar that
basically limits the the uh amounts of
sugar, glucose, you know, in your in
your diet and has the good healthy fats,
fatty acids and uh you know, they they
do very well.
>> Yeah, that's true. That's important. Uh
but you like to see that level of
motivation and fight uh put in the right
direction. Yeah,
>> you could have all the motivation and
fight and determination to stay alive
>> when the treatments are actually killing
you
>> and eventually you're worn down and you
just give up because you've been
fighting so long and nothing's improved.
But with metabolic therapy, a lot of the
fight uh and the motivation is on the
shoulders of the patient. That's on the
patient. That's why we developed the
glucose ketone index calculator uh which
allows the patient by measuring their
own blood sugar in their own ketone
bodies to know whether they're whether
or not they're in the zone uh regardless
of what they what they eat. And we know
there are carnivores, vegetarians,
pescatarians, Mediterranean people
>> that these various diets. But if they
can get that same zone into that
nutritional ketoic zone, then that puts
tremendous stress on the tumors. Then
you come in with the glutamine targeting
drugs, low doses, work with the diet.
It's a diet drug cocktail and the
success depends in large part on the
fight in the patient, whether that's
prayer, family, whatever it is. uh
you're you're you're you're bringing
together all of the capabilities that
that patient in the correct treatment uh
can and and you the outcomes are usually
far far better uh than you you're right
than trusting your soul uh to a to an
establishment that has a very poor track
record.
>> Yes.
>> So so uh this is a change it be and and
right now unfortunately I feel so
terrible about this. Most of the
oncologists are good people, but they
have never been trained to know what I
just told you. They've never heard of
this. They have no they often say diet
and glucose have nothing to do uh with
cancer. Um so this this is incorrect
information. Uh but we need those folks
to be retrained because we're going to
have to have someone tra treating these
people. But the the playbook has to be
very very I'm not saying we should throw
out all toxic chemicals.
>> I'm just saying you have to know how to
better use those.
>> We can get we can get superior outcomes
with differences in dosage and timing
when the patient is in nutritional
ketosis. So the the process of killing
tumor cells becomes lot lot a lot less
harmful to the normal cells of your
body. So this is a this is a work in
progress and we do all the clinical
pre-clinical studies here at Boston
College with the best animal models of
cancer all natural ones not these
genetically engineered monstrosities but
what we do is the natural cancers and
then we translate it to clinics those
clinics that can do these or move onto
this into this space and the outcomes
are usually quite remarkable but we
haven't streamlined we haven't it's not
done it's just done in isolated places
and so many of the cancer patients get
frustrated. They run they run to their
oncologists and they get slapped down
and they're not treated.
>> So, uh where do they go to to get this
new the we're writing big treatment
protocols as we speak and this will help
the cancer patient and the practitioners
together so they work together as a
team. Uh but right now um with the
exception of a few isolated clinics
patients can't get this. Yes. uh because
the system says a cancer is a genetic
disease and you have to persist uh with
these uh imunotherapies and these
optivos nutri you know vastens and all
these things that are based on the
sematic mutation theory and they're not
they're not helping a lot of people in
fact they're killing a lot of people yes
so um and you have you hear it
advertised on the news at night the
they're not hiding this information they
spend more time telling you how the
cancer drug will kill you uh as as to as
to how it's going to help you. They and
they're not hiding. They're absolutely
telling you this drug can kill you.
Well, why are you taking anything that
has a remote possibility of killing you
when you don't have to? That's the
>> You know what I think happens is they
see so many people that don't make it
and just like I know when I was in the
hospital, the doctor says, "Well, you
know, cuz I was my body wasn't
responding to all the drugs. I just
couldn't it just made me sick. I
couldn't handle it." He goes, "Well, you
know, you're not doing well because
you're not responding. You know, we
don't know what else to do." Well, we're
all going to die someday. You know, he
tells me that, "Well, yeah, but I'm not
ready. I was 32 years old, and I'm not
ready." You know, and I made up my mind
then. I was going to get out of there
and snuck out at 2 in the morning, out
of there, and just said, "The heck with
this. I'll go find something." But, you
know, and and the thing is once you
understand the things you're talking
about, it it's just common sense. it it
hits you in the right place. It makes
sense from A to Z. Everything you're
saying, and I'm sure your regular, you
know, conventional doctor doesn't like
the things you're saying because it
might affect their pocketbook if
everybody if we had hundreds of
thousands of people that ran down the
street and and did did the things you're
talking about. But you know what I mean,
that's okay. And and that also I wanted
to find out again where can they get the
the be able to measure their ketones and
their
>> Yeah. glucose levels.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, we I I send folks a
kit of information
uh that can help in in the in between
before we the big treatment protocol is
is is published. Um and you can get the
the the Keto Mojo meter from from
Amazon. There's a couple of others out
there as well. And uh it's all spelled
out the model and all this but um that's
you take a prick of blood from your tip
of your finger like someone that with a
di with diabetes would have to do every
day.
>> Uh but now there uh there's the
technology is coming. Right now we have
the free Libra uh which is something
that's a patch attached to your arm that
can give you um uh immediate blood
glucose readings. Uh that's the for the
diabetics basically so they don't uh
lapse into a coma from low blood sugar
or have too high of blood sugar to keep
stable. So uh they can you know either
sweets or stop eating sweets or whatever
it is to bring them back into balance.
>> Uh but for the cancer patient we need to
measure both the glucose and the ketones
just like we do for the kids with
epilepsy.
>> So so uh we've developed the ratio of
2.0 zero or below which is good
nutritional therapeutic ketosis. Um and
then so they can do that but as I said
the technology is coming where we think
they might have both glucose ketone
monitor in the patch
>> in which case you can the patient could
then on their cell phone with Bluetooth
could then be reading their glucose
ketone index right as it happens and
we've always said that once the patient
is into a 2.0 zero or below generally
that's when we bring in the parasite
medications uh to facilitate killing
tumor cells a and you can take
hyperbaric oxygen and all these kinds of
things so so our research has shown
uh I have done a deep dive on this that
parasite medication cancer is not a
parasite like a lot of people keep
saying cancer is a cancer is not a
parasite however the parasite
>> and the tumor cell use a common pathway
to get energy to stay alive and the
parasite medications target that pathway
that's also present in the tumor cells.
>> The parasite medication works best when
the patient is in nutritional ketosis.
So you can take these deworming drugs uh
fenbendazol, embendol, ivormectin, all
these kinds of things and they kill
parasites but they also kill tumor cells
but they don't work well unless the
patient is in nutritional ketosis
lowering the blood sugar. So so again
it's a package. uh you've got to know uh
how to get yourself into ketosis which
lowers the blood sugar, elevates the
ketones for the normal cells and then
you come after them with these low doses
of uh glutamine targeting drugs and the
the results are remarkable and this is
not rocket science but but I tell you it
took a lot of work to connect those dots
over a long time and know what the
different how all these things are
working simultaneous and that's what we
did. Well, you know what? I I'm one of
these guys and that loves to to hear
people talk about these kind of things
that have really done the work. You
know, there's so many people out there
talking. They haven't been around long
enough to do much work and to figure
things out. Maybe they're taking from
this one and that one. But, you know, I
had a teacher that died at 106 and you
know, she was remarkable and I used to
couldn't wait to sit sit with her and
just listen to to what she said because
she would be saying not what you're
saying but similar things many many
years ago, you know, and it well 30
years ago and and to me that that got my
attention real quick because you learn
and people you need to really listen to
Dr. Seafrid here, he he's he knows what
he's talking about. Uh he's seen it. He
sees what works. I have interviewed
people that use a similar diet that
you're talking about and uh you know,
they have the best results. They're
they're working with cancer people and
like you said, you got to find someone
you can work with and you know, ideally
a local person that's that's integrative
that believes this, you know, that that
maybe has uh maybe a functional medicine
doctor. A lot of those doctors are more
open. They've seen the light. A lot of
these guys, you know, they've been
through it themselves. Maybe they had a,
you know, fan family member or something
that had cancer and or a lot of them
will tell you that they would not do the
treatments that that conventional
medicine's telling people to do.
>> And you know that I mean I've got a lot
of friends that are doctors that would
tell me that
>> that some of them are renowned and they
just you know they say no you don't do
that. Well, the last place you're going
to go, you go to this guy, you go to
this one because they're not going to
think you're nuts and try to drag you
off over the cliff, you know. So,
>> and and yeah, we do need sometimes you
do need servants some of these drugs.
Sometimes people have, you know, certain
things going on and they need they need
it. But I mean, who's to say they never
need it, you know, but but it's but
you're exactly
uh I think, you know, right about all
this and um I mean I know you are and
and it just cancer can't survive if you
starve it from what it needs to survive
on and and you know and and like you
said the the uh glutamine is in a lot of
foods. It's impossible to get get all
the glutamine out. So, you got to have
the reducers and that's where you need
to have someone that can get that those
to you
>> because it's usually a prescription,
right?
>> Well, that that's the Yeah, generally u
it's easy to lower the blood sugar. Um
uh but the glutamine requires a little
bit more finesse. Um and this is a point
uh people always ask me well if I'm
eating meat the glutamine but the the
amounts are the glutamine is already
very very high in your body. Uh it's the
highest it's if if you do an amino acid
analysis of the blood the amount of
glutamine in the bloodstream is already
higher than all the other amino acids.
Um so eating more or whatever um may or
may not accelerate your tumor growth. Um
but uh drugs are required to block that
critical pathway and you can't hold the
choke you can't uh do a choke hold on
the glutamine because your your normal
cells need it as well. Um that's why we
developed the press pulse therapeutic
strategy where we compress down glucose
continuously because the body can
transition to ketones so we can
neutralize the lowering of the glucose.
the brain will switch to ketones. But
the that's why we pulse the glutamine
drugs. We don't hold them uh constant.
We just hit them for a short period of
time, pull them off, uh let the body
recover a little bit, hit them again,
pull it off, let the body recover a
little bit. And what happens is you
gradually degrade the tumor
uh without harming your body. Your gut,
our guts, uh our immune system, our ura
cycle, all these things require
glutamine. So if you're too aggressive
and don't know what you're doing, uh you
might harm the patient uh or make the or
make success less likely in managing the
cancer. So we call it the press pulse
therapeutic strategy. And what you need
to know, you have to play one organ off
of another. You you're you're balancing
you're keeping your body in metabolic
homeostasis while you're slowly
degrading the tumor uh using various
glutamine targeting drugs, which could
be a variety of them. Um but many of
them like the best ones that have work
you either can't get them or they're
very cheap. So which is tragic again uh
because these drugs they man this we can
kill these cancer cells in so many ways
without harming the patient but nobody's
doing it. Yeah.
>> I know. How long does it usually take
someone to start to see results? If
let's say I I started on a on a you know
a sugar reducing like keto type diet or
I don't know some some keto diets are
more vegetarian and others some are more
you know they they fit in. There's I
mean some there's uh certain people that
do metabolic
uh typing you know to see kind of where
and it's all about keeping you know like
uh the Gonzalez protocol and people like
that that did a lot of that and they had
really good results you know with with a
lot of people but you know they got to
really stick to the plan and they'll
tell you that those people if you don't
stick to it I don't want to work with
you because you know I you know I can't
help you if you're not going to stick
with it. But I just find that, you know,
myself when I first was diagnosed with
cancer and found out about a diet and
lifestyle, I didn't know anything. And
but believe it or not, you know, with
we're talking about a little bit
different thing. It's almost an opposite
kind of diet. It was a macrobiotic diet.
>> And I was on that diet, you know, for
six years. Well, that's why we developed
the glucose ketone index calculator to
provide a quantitative measure so that
the patient knows um well you can eat a
a carnivore diet or a vegan diet or
whatever kind of diet you want um as
long as you can get into that
quantitative zone. So that's why I when
people ask me what I can eat, what I
don't I say eat whatever you think you
want to eat and let let the GKI tell you
what you can eat and not eat because
everybody's different from uh yeah
everybody. So what might be effective
for you might not be effective for
somebody else but the but the but having
that quantitative and the and the and
the struggle to get into that zone. Um
you know when people are diagnosed with
cancer they get emotionally upset. uh
they have a lot of anxiety a and that
raises blood sugar. So part of the
metabolic therapy is reducing stress um
for a variety of ways that we've
mentioned. Uh you got to reduce
emotional anxiety and it lowers the
blood sugar and makes the approach to
the GKI zone of 2.0 zero easier
>> once they what we what generally what we
do is we do a very comprehensive blood
work on the patient before when they're
first diagnosed before you do anything
to this guy. So and often you look at
the blood work and you say wow this
guy's out of balance in a number of
these different parameters and sometimes
they have diabetes high blood pressure
hypertension they have a lot of other
medical not always but many of them have
other medical issues oh by the way they
also have cancer some disregul growth of
disregulated cells how far at a
metabolic homeostasis is this individual
so then we transition them to a very low
carbohydrate diet
>> gradually move the parameters back in
line what we
a more more uh consistent with metabolic
homeostasis. And that could take a
couple weeks, maybe three weeks. It's
hard to know. Uh each person is
different.
>> When they get into the zone, then we
say, "Okay, uh we've got blood
parameters moving in the right
direction. The patient is in a state of
nutritional therapeutic ketosis. Now,
this person is ideally situated for low
doses of the drugs that will target the
glutamine. Now you now you get you got
the tumor cells are in a compromised
state and the question you've asked is
how long do you have to do this and the
answer is we don't know.
>> I there's one of the guys that we work
with Pablo Kelly he has a glyobblasto
diagnosed in 2014
and um they said he would be dead in
nine months if he if he didn't do
standard of care. So he rejected
everything, radiation, chemo, steroids,
he did it and he just went on a very
restricted restricted diet. The tumor
started to shrink and it was he had an
inoperable tumor that was operated on
three years later and then he thought he
was out in clear because they said, "Oh,
we think we got most of it if not all of
it." But it came back and uh they cut it
out again. Uh and then it three years
later it came back. It's still there. In
other words, it never killed him, but it
never went away. Now, since in the 10
years of his survival on the planet, he
got married and has two children. Did is
he cured of cancer? No. Is he still
alive and he's getting on with his life?
Yes. Uh, okay. Well, he's outlived by by
by very long
increase. But he's not cured. Now, other
people have had their tumors gone
completely. Uh, but other people are
like Pablo. They just live with it. But
but they're living with it knowing that
this is something part of them now. Uh
now is are these people now candidates
for standard of care? Uh that would come
in later and the answer is I don't know.
Uh but do that up that's up to the
patient. It's up to how they respond.
It's up to their what we see. All all
all I can say is the system as the way I
see it uh and how to manage cancer could
be massively improved uh with the
information that I I provide and I like
you're right we cannot uh say that we
have a cure for cancer we have a
strategy for managing cancer in a more
logical way based on the underpinning
biochemistry and biology of the
disorder. That's what I can say. Whether
it leads to a cure or long-term
management without resolution, we don't
know. So, uh uh it works in dogs, too. I
mean, we've we've had great success.
Cancer is killing domestic dogs uh more
than anything else. And dogs put on
these metabolic therapies do oftenimes
do remarkably well because it's a
foundational principle of evolutionary
biology that we're dealing with here.
And once you understood these
principles, you can start uh logically
working to resolve resolve the disease
and the patients now become participants
in their own knowledge and health. So
they're not bystanders any longer. They
are active participants in the
management of their disease. And as long
as they have what you said that
motivation and that desire and know for
the first time what they're doing is
actually helping to resolve the tumor,
then you get a better outcome overall.
>> Yeah, I agree. And you know, I I love a
diet that's well, this is basically, if
you do it right, it's antifungal
because, you know, cancer is
fermentation, you know, lives off of
fermentation. It doesn't need oxygen,
you know, to live like a normal cell and
it just thrives and and people are
eating too much carbs, but too much
fruit, too much things that turn into
glucose. And I I've known cancer
patients that sit around eat bowls of
fruit and I get nervous because I know,
you know, and they just say, "Well, you
know, I heard heard fruit is good for
you. It's got the phytonutrients." Well,
yeah, but you know, a little
>> Let them measure their GKI and they'll
that'll tell you whether
>> that's what I was going to say that
everybody's got to get this this
calculator and measure themselves no
matter what you're on. Whether you're on
a vegan diet, whether you're on a on a
macrobotic diet, if you're on a keto
aerraneian,
you know, there's so many diets.
Everybody's got the answer. But the the
real answer, I believe, is not far from
what what you're talking about because
it only makes sense because you know
what cancer feeds off of. And I know
that I've interviewed people that said
cancer is a fungus. pancer is a is
nothing more than than you know because
it's it's like you know in around it
it's all living in this but I don't know
but you know and and there's all this
talk
>> but it only makes sense to get rid of
the get the sugar down low.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Those go those folks don't
do the research that we do. They're
speculation. I I've looked at this
stuff. Now what what's interesting
though uh there are certain viruses
interestingly enough like human cytogala
virus
>> uh that gets into the cancer cell and uh
uh the virus actually acts as a
turbocharger
uh to use glucose and glutamine more
effectively. It's unbelievable like when
you put a turbocharger on your engine in
the car.
>> Yeah.
>> It it compresses the air uh better for
the gasoline to have a greater power.
And these viruses like human side
omegala virus get into the cell the cell
is already using glucose and glutamine
but those viruses are turbocharges to
make them lose it use it even better. So
uh so this is just a but if you pull the
plug on the glucose and glutamine
availability everything dies the tumor
cell along with the viruses in the tumor
cell.
>> Yeah.
>> So uh again uh yeah so it's not a
fungus. A fungus is a totally different
organism. Um it's not a parasite.
parasite is a totally
>> you hear that people say it's a parasite
and a fungus.
>> No, it's not.
>> And and and candida and all that. I've
heard it all, you know.
>> Yeah. But it's not. You know, we've
looked into all that. It's a it's a
disregulated. Now, in the micro
environment, you can get other organisms
growing in there because of the uh of
the t of the um hypoxia
uh that's produced in and around the
tumor. And and the interesting thing is
that the waste products of glutamine
glute of glutamine and glucose
metabolism like when we when we take we
have the g exhaust on a car blows out uh
carbon dioxide from burning the gas and
other pollutants into the into the
environment. Well, using fermentation uh
by a cancer cell acidif causes
acidification of the micro environment
around the tumor leading to uh other
organisms making an ideal uh environment
for their for their proliferation but
they are not the cancer cells. They're
just surviving on the waste products of
the cancer cell. Interestingly enough, a
lot of imunotherapies and various
therapies uh don't work because of the
acidification of the micro environment
caused by glucose and glutamine. So
again, if you take away the glucose and
glutamine, you reduce the acidification
of the micro environment while at the
same time killing the tumor and now your
immune system can come in and pick up
the corpses. So uh uh so you can clean
up the whole mess using your body's own
natural capabilities, but you got to let
the body have those capabilities. And
once you allow that then your act
actions together with the body's own
healing power can gradually resolve this
uh problem. Now uh in your diet
personally do you limit uh you you use
the calculator all the time or do you
limit do you do you limit the carbs to a
certain level try to
>> No I I don't have cancer so I I I don't
do that but I do I do intermittent
fasting and I do a lot another thing
that's very important is exercise you've
got to have cons you have to have a lot
of daily routine exercise it makes
everything in your body work well all
systems
go maximum when you're when you have a
lot of aerobic exercise. Okay? All these
things start working better. Again, it's
a total system utilization. You got to
get the low GKI. You have to have the
exercise, what whatever diet can and and
the diets have to be uh balanced with
macro and micronutrients. And I don't
care vegan. It's harder for vegans uh to
get into this than it is for carnivores.
Uh, not but I don't want to label you.
Oh, I'm sticking the car. No, no. I
don't care what you do. Yeah. Each
person will come to know what they can
or cannot do. So,
>> they they will make that decision.
>> I was kind of talking about when I was
asking you like as a preventative thing,
people that want to like prevent because
there's so much cancer out there now
that people don't want to get can
believe me. Believe me, they don't want
to get it. And you know, it's like me. I
had cancer a long time ago. For all
these years, I've, you know, I've done
all these things. Exercise, eat healthy,
you know, do all the things, try to
practice what what, you know, I kind of
follow a lot of your the things you're
talking about. You know,
>> here here's the situation.
If people were really fearful of cancer
and they really wanted to prevent it, we
would not have an obesity epidemic.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Obesity has now replaced smoking
as one of the top risk factors for
getting
>> right. So obviously seeing all these
obese people obviously they have no clue
that this is putting them at risk for
cancer. Um so as I said if people were
really now obviously you in my book I've
said it in my writings I've said it you
it's very very difficult to get cancer
if you keep your mitochondria healthy.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So it's a mitochondrial metabolic
disease. If the mitochondria remain
healthy, it's very hard to get cancer.
All right. So how do you keep your
mitochondria healthy? You're you should
never be obese. Uh that should never be
even though some obese people are
healthy. I I know that. But many are not
healthy.
>> So exercise, eating low low very low
processed foods. Uh you see you're
you're right. A lot of the stuff that we
are confronted with in our daily
lifestyles are highly processed foods
with minimal nutritional value and put
you at risk for systemic inflammation,
damage to the mitochondria, disregulated
cell growth. But the issue is
prevention. And I don't think people
really know about or care about
prevention for the most part. Not
because otherw as I said we have an
obesity epidemic that tells you and we
have a a cancer epidemic and obesity and
cancer are are closely linked to each
other.
>> So and I see little kids that are obese.
>> Parents have no clue that that's putting
those little kids at risk for all kinds
of health problems. They will not live
on the planet long enough to really
they're going to put themselves
compromise their uh survival on the
planet for for already damaging their
body at such a young age. So, and what
is they don't know what I'm saying?
They've never heard any physician or
anybody telling them what I've just told
you. So, until the word gets out, you're
going to have these problems. And I
don't know what's keeping the word from
getting out. Your show maybe will help.
Other other podcasts will help. Well,
we've been talking this here. We've been
talking about it for years. I've been in
the nutritional business for 32 years
and and you know, we've been talking
about diet and you know, uh, you know,
trying to keep the diet, I mean, the fat
down and I mean, the levels of the
weight down, it's not good for people on
all levels. And and and that's and I
know that's why there's so much cancer
and people drink too much. They do
everything too much, you know.
>> Yeah. That's who that's that. Listen,
that's who we are.
>> That's just our species. But you know,
you got people sitting in traffic in all
the major cities getting all frustrated
by the guy who just cut you off.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Which you're you're not moving. You're
sedentary. You're frustrated. You come
home. Uh you got kids. You got to feed
them. You're tired. What are you going
to throw something in the microwave, sit
down, relax, have a beer? um uh you're
not going to go out and run three miles
or jog or walk. Um and then eventually
you put yourself at risk, but not only
for cancer. Type two diabetes, uh you
got heart cardiocular disease, you got
dementia, that's another one that's
related to all this stuff. It's called
chronic diseases. cancer being uh one of
the major ones. But you put it all
packaged together and that's what's
afflicting most people are chronic
diseases and they're all by diet
lifestyle and and as I told my many
people you know we evolved during the
paleolithic period to hunt down animals
and eat them and kill them and uh there
were very few vegans if any vegans or
vegetarians otherwise you would not
exist. So we had a lot of exercise we
ate foods that have very low
carbohydrates. I mean, there's not a lot
of sugar uh on the back of a buffalo,
you know? Uh right. I mean, let's be
honest.
>> True,
>> right? I mean, and then you find some
tuber that might have some carbohydrate
in it, but uh bottom line, a lot of
exercise, very few and very There were
no obese people in Paleolithic period.
Our technology has moved faster than our
biology. It's evolved faster than our
biology.
the price for advanced technology by
having all these chronic diseases. But
but it doesn't have to be as long as you
have the knowledge. I'm not saying don't
eat pizzas and donuts and all this
stuff. I'm just saying that you be
aware,
>> right? Just be aware.
>> Just hey, just just for fun, go to the
grocery store and look what's in
everybody's baskets, you know?
>> Yeah. Right.
>> And just look at it and then goes and
and try to find anything in their basket
that's organic.
That's that's uh you know really healthy
>> and that's what I've been doing for
years and it's like I've never seen
anything like it. I you know you go
there's always a a a healthy aisle or
two in the in the grocery store but I go
in there I'm in there all over the place
and down the but hardly anybody's in
there.
>> Well that's the thing that and believe
me when you we've engineered these foods
to taste so damn good.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's not like you're
giving them some bitter pill. I mean,
they're taking it. It's a com They call
it comfort food. Well, your life is
miserable. You have all these stress.
Let's go out and eat a big pizza. Uh I
love pizza. Don't get me wrong.
>> Oh, yeah. Who doesn't? It's great. It's
wonderful.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, and
>> but I know better than liking it too
much.
>> Yeah. It's true. But we're not we're not
telling folks that they shouldn't do
this. Yeah. Yeah, but we should just
know what they need to do to stay as
healthy as they possibly can.
>> Kind of limit limit the stuff that's
going to be harmful to you and try to
try to create a balance some way or
another that's that's in in your favor
because yeah, they just get
>> and you know, eat organic. Go to my
restaurant guy templeton list.com
which is I mean it's not perfect but
it's the best of the best. And it's
like, hey, I I I only eat at those when
I'm on the road traveling, unless I just
in some little 10 buck two town. And you
got to, you know, you got to make do.
But, you know,
>> should link you might want to consider
linking your Templeton nutrition package
to GL glucose ketone index versus uh
other foods or other thing. If you could
link your if you could link your
nutrition to a lower GKI that that would
that would actually propel people uh to
recognize and use the GKI using your
foods.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I mean, you know, we've done that.
It's just like a labor of love. We've do
we've done that and we've been I've got
somebody that work on it every day, you
know, and we've got I don't know, it's
like 7,000 restaurants now on there. And
it's just part of what I do. I just
wanted to, you know, give back because I
have a story and and I said, you know
what, for years I traveled around and it
was always had to go to, you know, it's
hard to find places to eat and there's a
lot more than there used to be.
>> You know, people are but so that's the
thing. about there's more cancer but
better places and you got to find like
we said and I'll let you go because
we've been on for a good while but
>> you got to find a a good doctor in your
area that you can work with because you
know somebody you can get these tests
done and and get you know from your
heart to everything because going to a
regular guy they're just going to
they're not going to do anything. No,
but we're training. We're in the process
now of we have a very uh training
protocol that's being worked out right
now as we speak in Switzerland. Yeah.
So, we'll be training all kinds of
physicians.
>> Great.
>> So, you have like a a list or
>> No, not yet. Well, first we have to
train them. They have to go through a be
certified. So, you have to have a
certification that's established by the
medical establishment to say this person
is now certified to to treat patients
using metabolic therapy. So they have
taken a course they have demonstrated
they have demonstrated competence and
many MDs can then switch and get the
same certification you know a lot of
>> so so they'll be so people will know
that this guy has taken a course that
has been sanctioned by those of us who
actually do the research knowing that
that individual knows what he's talking
about because you're going to get a lot
of charlatans come in here thinking that
they know what to do and how to do it
when they've never been certified to be
trained to know how to do that. So,
>> how long are we looking at with this?
>> Well, right now, uh, we have the the the
protocols written. We're waiting for our
big paper to be accepted. Um, uh, my my
colleague Josephine Barbarino from from
Germany has a a place in Switzerland,
uh, where she has done all the the
protocols. We have a a site. Trying to
raise money for these things obviously
is is a real challenge. Yeah. So, I'm
working with several several different
groups to see uh if we can get this off
the ground so we can start building
clinics using metabolic therapy.
>> Yeah. So, this is all happening. Uh and
it happens because the science is solid
that I'm talking about. And and it
works. Let's put it that way. And I
think most po folks want it. Most people
want this.
>> The problem is you've got to get trained
person uh personnel to do it. Uh uh and
you have to be certified to do it. So
they know they're going to somebody that
can give them the best information and
work with them. So this is the future.
Um this is the future of cancer
management and it will be the future for
management of a lot of chronic diseases.
So the paradigm is slowly changing and
we just have to hang on and our you know
my my uh research here is supported uh
entirely by private foundations and
philanthropy. So if you read our papers,
you'll see all the folks that are
supporting what we do. And uh the more
money we get from these from these uh
organizations, these private foundations
and philanthropy, the faster we can get
this whole thing into the into the
mainstream. So it's it's it's a work in
progress. It'll happen and it will
eventually be replacing a lot of the
things that we're doing today.
Well, you know, I applaud everything
you're doing and and uh you you're just
doing wonderful work and I can't wait
till you get that because the people
need it more than ever and and uh you've
done the work and now it's time to for
people to reap the benefits and and uh I
mean, you know, roll up your sleeves,
people. That's what it takes. and and uh
you know make some changes you know and
and uh quit being a do I always say a
doctor's Christmas present you know and
just take care you know and believe me
it's not worth it you know you think it
won't happen to you it will to a lot of
you so uh is there anything that we that
you'd like to say we haven't talked
about or anything you'd like to uh
>> I think we covered you know there's a
lot of deep science to discuss about but
you know We're not those
>> we're basically speaking to lay people
that people that are, you know, they're
they're they're learning. A lot of them
are new to this. So, it's good. It's
great.
>> Yeah. You know, and uh I think it's just
um as long as we can keep our
pre-clinical systems going, um people if
people want to donate, they can go to
the Boston College, my website at BC
Boston College, or they can go to Travis
Kristofferson's foundation. And I and I
also have my book that people can read.
And I want to mention that I've only
written one book.
>> You have one. Do you have it there to
hold it up or?
>> Yeah. The but the problem is there's
pirates out there that are putting my
name on on summaries that I
>> Oh gosh.
>> You know, so yeah,
>> cancer as a metabolic disease.
>> Yeah. This is the only book that I ever
wrote um right here. It's John Wy Press.
It's It's not cheap. I didn't It's a It
It's a science book. Uh it's made for
both scientists and lay people.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh but but it's uh it might be the over
overhead. It might be over the head of
some people, but then I find other
people learn a lot and they actually
learn more than my students faster than
my students.
>> Yeah.
>> When your life is on the line, you'd be
surprised how smart you become in a very
short period.
>> A lot of people read everything they can
get a hold of. I mean, the smart ones do
because they want to learn. They want to
get a handle on it.
>> Yeah. And you know, people have asked me
a lot of questions about, oh, this tumor
cells can use fatty acids. No, they
can't. We we've interrogated them. Oh,
there's some cancers that can use ketone
bodies. No, they can't. Yeah,
>> we've tested that. We've tested all
that. And there's always some sugar and
glutamine in the the background that
makes them think they can use these
other fuels. So, that's what we have.
We're very rigid in what we do. And we
check we try to be as comprehensive as
>> I'm going to ask you one last thing.
What kind of sweeteners can people use
if they want something sweet? Is stevia
a problem?
>> Stevia or monk fruit or something? I
mean, for
>> Yeah, you know, it's a very good point
and I really can't address it.
>> Um, but I know in bulletproof coffee,
uh, which is, um, mediumchain
triglycerides with fresh coffee and some
butter, organic butter and some cream
thrown in there. Some people like to
throw a little stevia in there. It
tastes like a latte, actually. It's very
extra. One of those cups last you like a
whole day. You don't have to eat
anything else,
>> but stevia won't won't spike your blood
sugar.
>> Uh we I would test it uh with the GKI,
>> okay?
>> And you're not adding a lot of stevia.
You're just adding a little bit. So
again, you know, you can always look at
your glucose ketone index to see whether
or not the stevia is, but generally it's
not as opposed to sugar. But some things
like saccharine and these other things
may not be
>> they they these chemical things um go
for the more natural stuff.
>> I mean we've used stevia and mung fruit
is about the only thing we've used and
it's you know it stevia has a little bit
of an aftertaste but you know you don't
need much like you say and and it's like
some everybody needs a little something
sweet sometimes so
>> Oh absolutely.
>> So you know I mean I I mean we we eat
out in places that they go you want
dessert. No, we don't eat dessert. You
know, we don't. I mean, they're like,
>> you know, me and my my wife, they they
think we're, you know, nuts sometimes,
but I don't care, you know, but that's
how we are.
>> But, you know, we we eat good food and
healthy food, but it's just that, you
know, if I'm going to have something, I
go home and I have something that's uh
low on the glycemic index, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that's true.
That's the way you got to go.
>> Yeah. Anyway,
>> thank you so much. I appreciate you
coming on and I appreciate your work and
everything you've talked about is is
very very very important for people to
understand and to to listen to know
more. Uh get Dr. Seafford's book uh go
get his GKI uh calculator
and and and take care of yourself for
God's sakes. And uh
>> anyway, I I just I really enjoyed
talking to you though. I've I've I've
seen you on on uh different videos and
and it's it's been a pleasure.
>> No, thank you very much. It was a
pleasure being here today.
>> All right. Well, thank you and uh
everyone, I hope you enjoyed this uh
this talk today and and uh I'm looking
forward to uh another one soon uh down
the road. Maybe Dr. Seafford will have
some more information for us. But
anyway, this is James Templeton. Uh
we'll see you on down the line.